README.md, before:

<p align="center"><img src="extra/logo.png"><br><sub>✨ Very customizable and minimal font previewer written in bash ✨</sub></p>

`fontpreview` is a commandline tool that lets you **quickly search** for fonts
that are installed on your machine and preview them. The **fuzzy search** feature
is provided by `fzf` and the preview is generated with `imagemagick` and then
displayed using `sxiv`. This tool is **highly customizable**, almost all of the
variables in this tool can be changed using the commandline flags or you can 
configure them using environment variables.

![](extra/demo.gif)

## Dependencies

- `xdotool`
- `fzf`
- `imagemagick`
- `sxiv`

## Installation
### Install using ```make```
```bash
# Clone the repo
$ git clone https://github.com/sdushantha/fontpreview

# Change your current directory to fontpreview
$ cd fontpreview

# Install it
$ sudo make install
```

### Install it locally
```bash
# Download the fontpreview source code, save as fontpreview
# and make it executeable
$ curl -L https://git.io/raw_fontpreview > fontpreview && chmod +x fontpreview

# Then move fontpreview to somewhere in your $PATH
# Here is an example
$ mv fontpreview ~/scripts/
```

### AUR package
For arch based distros, an AUR package is available at https://aur.archlinux.org/packages/fontpreview/

## Usage
```
$ fontpreview --help
usage: fontpreview [-h] [--size "px"] [--position "+x+y"] [--search-prompt SEARCH_PROMPT]
                   [--font-size "FONT_SIZE"] [--bg-color "BG_COLOR"] [--fg-color "FG_COLOR"]
                   [--preview-text "PREVIEW_TEXT"] [--version]
 
┌─┐┌─┐┌┐┌┌┬┐┌─┐┬─┐┌─┐┬  ┬┬┌─┐┬ ┬
├┤ │ ││││ │ ├─┘├┬┘├┤ └┐┌┘│├┤ │││
└  └─┘┘└┘ ┴ ┴  ┴└─└─┘ └┘ ┴└─┘└┴┘
Very customizable and minimal font previewer written in bash
 
optional arguments:
   -h, --help            show this help message and exit
   --size                size of the font preview window
   --position            the position where the font preview window should be displayed
   --search-prompt       input prompt of fuzzy searcher
   --font-size           font size
   --bg-color            background color of the font preview window
   --fg-color            foreground color of the font preview window
   --preview-text        preview text that should be displayed in the font preview window
   --version             show the version of kunst you are using
```

## Configure
You can configure `fontpreview` through environment variables.

This can be in your `.bashrc`, `.zshrc`, etc

```bash
# Input prompt of fuzzy searcher
export FONTPREVIEW_SEARCH_PROMPT="❯ "

# Size of the font preview window
export FONTPREVIEW_SIZE=532x365

# The position where the font preview window should be displayed
export FONTPREVIEW_POSITION="+0+0"

# Font size
export FONTPREVIEW_FONT_SIZE=38

# Background color of the font preview window
export FONTPREVIEW_BG_COLOR="#ffffff"

# Foreground color of the font preview window
export FONTPREVIEW_FG_COLOR="#000000"

# Preview text that should be displayed in the font preview window
export FONTPREVIEW_PREVIEW_TEXT="ABCDEFGHIJKLM\nNOPQRSTUVWXYZ\nabcdefghijklm\nnopqrstuvwxyz\n1234567890\n!@$\%(){}[]"
```

## Tips
It is recommended to have the preview window floating. So if you use i3wm or a variant, put this in your config:
```
for_window [instance="fontpreview"] floating enable
```

Commit message:

Mentioned @elsorino as the maintainer of the AUR package

README.md, after:

<p align="center"><img src="extra/logo.png"><br><sub>✨ Very customizable and minimal font previewer written in bash ✨</sub></p>

`fontpreview` is a commandline tool that lets you **quickly search** for fonts
that are installed on your machine and preview them. The **fuzzy search** feature
is provided by `fzf` and the preview is generated with `imagemagick` and then
displayed using `sxiv`. This tool is **highly customizable**, almost all of the
variables in this tool can be changed using the commandline flags or you can 
configure them using environment variables.

![](extra/demo.gif)

## Dependencies

- `xdotool`
- `fzf`
- `imagemagick`
- `sxiv`

## Installation
### Install using ```make```
```bash
# Clone the repo
$ git clone https://github.com/sdushantha/fontpreview

# Change your current directory to fontpreview
$ cd fontpreview

# Install it
$ sudo make install
```

### Install it locally
```bash
# Download the fontpreview source code, save as fontpreview
# and make it executeable
$ curl -L https://git.io/raw_fontpreview > fontpreview && chmod +x fontpreview

# Then move fontpreview to somewhere in your $PATH
# Here is an example
$ mv fontpreview ~/scripts/
```

### AUR package
For Arch based distros, an [AUR package](https://aur.archlinux.org/packages/fontpreview/) is available at 

Maintained by **[@elsorino](https://github.com/elsorino)**
```bash
yay -Sy fontpreview 
```
## Usage
```
$ fontpreview --help
usage: fontpreview [-h] [--size "px"] [--position "+x+y"] [--search-prompt SEARCH_PROMPT]
                   [--font-size "FONT_SIZE"] [--bg-color "BG_COLOR"] [--fg-color "FG_COLOR"]
                   [--preview-text "PREVIEW_TEXT"] [--version]
 
┌─┐┌─┐┌┐┌┌┬┐┌─┐┬─┐┌─┐┬  ┬┬┌─┐┬ ┬
├┤ │ ││││ │ ├─┘├┬┘├┤ └┐┌┘│├┤ │││
└  └─┘┘└┘ ┴ ┴  ┴└─└─┘ └┘ ┴└─┘└┴┘
Very customizable and minimal font previewer written in bash
 
optional arguments:
   -h, --help            show this help message and exit
   --size                size of the font preview window
   --position            the position where the font preview window should be displayed
   --search-prompt       input prompt of fuzzy searcher
   --font-size           font size
   --bg-color            background color of the font preview window
   --fg-color            foreground color of the font preview window
   --preview-text        preview text that should be displayed in the font preview window
   --version             show the version of kunst you are using
```

## Configure
You can configure `fontpreview` through environment variables.

This can be in your `.bashrc`, `.zshrc`, etc

```bash
# Input prompt of fuzzy searcher
export FONTPREVIEW_SEARCH_PROMPT="❯ "

# Size of the font preview window
export FONTPREVIEW_SIZE=532x365

# The position where the font preview window should be displayed
export FONTPREVIEW_POSITION="+0+0"

# Font size
export FONTPREVIEW_FONT_SIZE=38

# Background color of the font preview window
export FONTPREVIEW_BG_COLOR="#ffffff"

# Foreground color of the font preview window
export FONTPREVIEW_FG_COLOR="#000000"

# Preview text that should be displayed in the font preview window
export FONTPREVIEW_PREVIEW_TEXT="ABCDEFGHIJKLM\nNOPQRSTUVWXYZ\nabcdefghijklm\nnopqrstuvwxyz\n1234567890\n!@$\%(){}[]"
```

## Tips
It is recommended to have the preview window floating. So if you use i3wm or a variant, put this in your config:

```
for_window [instance="fontpreview"] floating enable
```
